---
title: 2024.02.26 | AskUI Suite 24.2.2
slug: release-2024-02-26
authors: [johannesdienst, jonasmenesklou]
tags: [Intent-Pilot, AskUI Development Environment (ADE), AskUI Runner, AskUI Controller]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Introduction
The main focus of the release AskUI Installer 24.2.2 was to polish the previous release 24.2.1 and therefore no major changes were introduced.

## AskUI Installer Update 24.2.2
Introduces a number of new steps: [Downloadlink](https://files.askui.com/releases/Installer/24.2.2/AskUI-Suite-24.2.2-System-Installer-Win-AMD64-Full.exe).

### Installer for Windows
The installer contains a number of new and modified dialogs. Furthermore, it contains additional components.

More information can be found [here](../../docs/general/Getting%20Started/Installing%20AskUI/getting-started).

---
## New Features
This release focuses on bug fixes.

---

## Improvements
This release focuses on bug fixes.

- Improved the robustness of the inter-process connection between Legacy Controller and Remote Device Controller.
- We only allow a single instance of the Legacy Controller for desktop scenarious (mobile platforms are untouched).

---

## Fixes
This release focuses on bug fixes.

- Fixed left and right arrow key mapping which were swapped.
- Fixed issues with stuck mouse cursor and not finished actions.

---

## Changes
- Mouse movement uses the OS's cursor position set instead of delta movement on a 1000hz update rate. Making it more reliable.
- Legacy Controller and Remote Device Controller are both shutdown with an error message if the connection is broken.

## Known Issues

### **Mouse Movement**
- You may encounter issues when mouse pointer acceleration is enabled.
- There might be issues with the mouse movement when it tries to move to invalid coordinates.

---
## Versions

### Components and Packages
- AskUI Controller  
        - AskUI Controller: v0.2.1.0 Preview  
        - AskUI Legacy UI Controller: 0.14.0
- AskUI Runner: 0.1.4
- AskUI Development Environment (ADE)
- AskUI Development Kit (ADK)

### 3rd Party Versions
- Node.JS: 21.0.0
- PowerShell 7.3.8
