---
title: 2024.02.27 | AskUI Suite & Installer
slug: release-2024-02-07
authors: [dominiquemader, leonmeier]
tags: [AskUI Development Environment (ADE), AskUI Runner, AskUI Controller]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## Introduction

AskUI offers a hassle-free installation experience for its products via a user-friendly installer. This installer facilitates the seamless installation of AskUI products with just a few clicks.

## General

### Installer for Windows
The installer contains a number of new and modified dialogs. Furthermore, it contains additional components.

More information can be found [here](../../docs/general/Getting%20Started/Installing%20AskUI/getting-started).

---
## New Features
We introduced a couple of new features.

### In Preview
- [AskUI Development Environment (ADE)](../../docs/general/Components/AskUI-Development-Environment)  
        - Introduces environment management  
        - Project management  
        - Dependency installation  
        - Shell  
- [AskUI Runner](../../docs/general/Components/AskUI-Runner)
- [AskUI Controller](../../docs/general/Components/AskUI-Controller)

---
## Known Issues

### Installation Dependencies
- AskUI Development Kit (former AskUI-Lib) is not included in the installer. It will be downloaded during the setup process.

### **Mouse Movement**
- You may encounter issues when mouse pointer acceleration is enabled.
- There might be issues with the mouse movement when it tries to move to invalid coordinates.

### **Log Files**
- Log files diskspace usage increased. They are stored in `~/.askui/` and can be deleted if that causes any issues.

### **Android**
- Recording on an Android device is not stable.
- Recorded resolution might be lower than the device resolution.
- Recorded video might be empty or single frame in cases no screen updates occurred during recording.
- We don't support landscape mode on Android.
- Devices with high DPI screen might not work as expected.
- Video recording on MacOS is not supported.

---
## Versions

### Components and Packages
- AskUI Controller  
        - AskUI Controller: v0.2.0.0 Preview  
        - AskUI Legacy UI Controller: 0.13.0
- AskUI Runner: 0.1.4
- AskUI Development Environment (ADE)
- AskUI Development Kit (ADK)

### 3rd Party Versions
- Node.JS: 21.0.0
- PowerShell 7.3.8

---

## Recommended First-Time User Journey

To ensure a smooth onboarding experience, follow these steps:

1. **Download and Install:**
    - Download and install the installer
    - Run the installer.
2. **Initialization:**
    - Open the Command Prompt.
    - Type **`askui-shell`**.
3. **Configuration (First-Time Usage):**
    - Configure AskUI settings:
        1. Type **`AskUI-SetSettings -WorkspaceId <askui_workspace_id> -Token <askui_token>`**.
        2. (Optional for Proxy Users) Type **`AskUI-SetSettings -HttpProxy <http_proxy_address> -HttpsProxy <https_proxy_address>`**.
4. **Verify Settings:**
    - Type **`AskUI-ShowSettings`** to verify the configured settings.
5. **Create a New Project:**
    - Create a new project by typing **`AskUI-NewProject`**.
6. **Start AskUI Controller:**
    - _Note: You can skip this if you selected **Launch AskUI Controller** at the installation wizard._ 
    - Start the AskUI Controller in background mode by typing **`AskUI-StartController -RunInBackground`**.
7. **Project Editing (Optional):**
    - Open the project directory and starts editing the project.

:::info
You have to disable mouse acceleration for the AskUI Controller to work properly!
:::

8. **Run the Project:**
    - Run the project by typing **`AskUI-RunProject`**.

By following these steps, the user can efficiently set up AskUI Suite, configure essential settings, and seamlessly create and run projects.
